@subsection pod2texi
@anchor{pod2texi}

@subsubheading pod2texi NAME
@anchor{pod2texi NAME}

pod2texi - convert Pod to Texinfo

@subsubheading pod2texi SYNOPSIS
@anchor{pod2texi SYNOPSIS}

@verbatim
  pod2texi [OPTION]... POD...
@end verbatim

@subsubheading pod2texi DESCRIPTION
@anchor{pod2texi DESCRIPTION}

Translate Pod file(s) to Texinfo.  There are two basic modes of
operation.  First, by default, each Pod is translated to a standalone
Texinfo manual.

Second, if @code{--base-level} is set higher than 0, each Pod is translated
to a file suitable for @code{@@include}, and one more file with a main menu
and all the @code{@@include} is generated.

@subsubheading pod2texi OPTIONS
@anchor{pod2texi OPTIONS}

@table @asis
@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}appendix-sections}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}appendix-sections}}

Use appendix sectioning commands (@code{@@appendix}, ...) instead of the
default numbered sectioning Texinfo @@-commands (@code{@@chapter},
@code{@@section}, ...).

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}base-level}=@emph{NUM|NAME}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}base-level}=@emph{NUM|NAME}}

Sets the level of the @code{head1} commands.  It may be an integer or a
Texinfo sectioning command (without the @code{@@}): 1 corresponds to the
@code{@@chapter}/@code{@@unnumbered} level, 2 to the @code{@@section} level, and so on.
The default is 0, meaning that @code{head1} commands are still output as
chapters, but the output is arranged as a standalone manual.

If the level is not 0, the Pod file is rendered as a fragment of a
Texinfo manual suitable for @code{@@include}.  In this case, each Pod file
has an additional sectioning command covering the entire file, one level
above the @code{--base-level} value.  Therefore, to make each Pod file a
chapter in a large manual, you should use @code{section} as the base level.

For an example of making Texinfo out of the Perl documentation itself,
see @code{contrib/perldoc-all} in the Texinfo source distribution.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}debug}=@emph{NUM}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}debug}=@emph{NUM}}

Set debugging level to @emph{NUM}.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}headings-as-sections}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}headings-as-sections}}

Use headings commands (@code{@@heading}, ...) instead of the
default numbered sectioning Texinfo @@-commands (@code{@@chapter},
@code{@@section}, ...). The sectioning command covering the entire
file output for each Pod file if @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}base-level} is not 0 is a
numbered command.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}help}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}help}}

Display help and exit.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}menus}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}menus}}

Output node menus. If there is a main manual, its Top node menu
is always output, since a master menu is generated. Other nodes
menus are not output in the default case.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}output}=@emph{NAME}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}output}=@emph{NAME}}

Name for the first manual, or the main manual if there is a main manual.
Default is to write to standard output.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}no-section-nodes}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}no-section-nodes}}

Use anchors for sections instead of nodes.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}no-fill-section-gaps}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}no-fill-section-gaps}}

Do not fill sectioning gaps with empty @code{@@unnumbered} files.
Ordinarily, it's good to keep the sectioning hierarchy intact.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}preamble}=@emph{STR}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}preamble}=@emph{STR}}

Insert @emph{STR} as top boilerplate before menu and includes.  If @emph{STR} is
set to @code{-}, read the top boilerplate from the standard input.  The default top
boilerplate is a minimal beginning for a Texinfo document.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}setfilename}=@emph{STR}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}setfilename}=@emph{STR}}

Use @emph{STR} in top boilerplate before menu and includes for @code{@@setfilename}.
No @code{@@setfilename} is output in the default case.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}subdir}=@emph{NAME}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}subdir}=@emph{NAME}}

If there is a main manual with include files (each corresponding to
an input Pod file), then those include files are put in directory @emph{NAME}.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}unnumbered-sections}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}unnumbered-sections}}

Use unnumbered sectioning commands (@code{@@unnumbered}, ...) instead of the
default numbered sectioning Texinfo @@-commands (@code{@@chapter},
@code{@@section}, ...).

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}top}=@emph{TOP}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}top}=@emph{TOP}}

Name of the @code{@@top} element for the main manual.  May contain Texinfo code.

@item @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}version}
@anchor{pod2texi @strong{@asis{}-@asis{}-@asis{}version}}

Display version information and exit.

@end table

@subsubheading pod2texi SEE ALSO
@anchor{pod2texi SEE ALSO}

@ref{,,, Pod-Simple-Texinfo}.  @ref{,,, perlpod}.  The Texinfo manual.
Texinfo home page: @url{http://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/}

@subsubheading pod2texi COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
@anchor{pod2texi COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE}

Copyright 2012-2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License,
or (at your option) any later version.

There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

@subsubheading pod2texi AUTHOR
@anchor{pod2texi AUTHOR}

Patrice Dumas <bug-texinfo@@gnu.org>.

